Alexander Huras - Software Engineer
===================================

Professional Skills
-------------------

**Languages**: Python, Scala, Java, SQL

**Frameworks**: Tensorflow, Apache Beam, Finagle, Kubeflow

**Platforms**: BigQuery, Hadoop, Kafka, Apache Beam, MySQL, GCP services


Experience:
===========

The majority of my professional experience over the last 7 years has been working as a backend/ML engineer within the revenue organization at Twitter. 
I've worked on a wide variety of projects spanning distributed systems, machine learning, and optimization as an individual contributor, project-, and team lead.
I’ve had an outsized influence on our hiring culture and have conducted over 350 interviews, and working with hiring managers to improve their processes and grow their teams.

**Sr. ML Software Engineer** Twitter Inc (2019 - current)

I improve the efficacy of Twitter’s performance advertising products. 
This includes novel feature and modeling work that has lead to significant improvements to mobile app install metrics (and some that has not).
I worked on a small team that was largely responsible for starting Twitter's shift from on premise model training and serving to a hybrid kubeflow based solution.
I drove and oversaw a culture shift for project/model ownership and operations within an organization of over 50 engineers. 
I built a GCP-based training data feed in BigQuery for ad impressions, which has become the de-facto standard source of truth for training ad prediction models across the organization.

**Sr. Software Engineer** Twitter Inc (2016-2019)

I worked on a large migration of Twitter's legacy ad reporting system onto a (then novel) hybrid cloud tech stack.
I lead a small team to design, build, and launch a new ad reservation system.
I lead an experimental effort to rethink how external (big) data becomes available within the ad server; this went on to form the foundation for a larger redesign effort.
This involved experiments in query/client performance within the ad server, introducing and instrumenting new datasets, and jumping in to address several high urgency projects related to data privacy in the context of ad serving.

**Software Engineer 2** Twitter Inc (2015-2016)

Extending on prior work to include more technical leadership for the forecaster project, as well as an emergency project to rebuild our Brand Surveys product offering from scratch. 
This involved building up, training, and eventually migrating the new system to a newly formed team in Seattle.

**Software Engineer 1** Twitter Inc (2014 - 2015)

Work focusing on data engineering for Twitter’s ad’s analytics infrastructure, as well as building a service for campaign performance forecasting.

Formal Education:
=================

2009 - 2014 BASc, Hon. Systems Design Engineering, University Of Waterloo, Canada

Internships/Co-op:
==================

**Spring 2013**: Product Analytics Intern, Facebook Inc, (Menlo Park CA)

**Fall 2012**: Data Engineer, Magnetic Inc, (New York NY)

**Winter 2012**: Software Engineering Intern, SkyGrid, (Sunnyvale CA)

**Spring 2011**: Trading System Analyst, ITG Canada Inc, (Toronto Ontario)

**Fall 2010**: Compliance Analyst, ITG Canada Inc, (Toronto Ontario)

Interests:
==========
Cycling, Skiing, Mountaineering, Woodworking, Backpacking
DotA, Path of Exile, Zwift, Euro-style board games
